---
layout: post
title: 以太坊上的几个名词
date: 2021-04-09
category: evm
---

* contract creation transaction  
A special transaction, with the zero address as the recipient, that is used to register a contract and record it on the Ethereum blockchain
<br/>
* hash  
A fixed-length fingerprint of variable-size input, produced by a hash function. (See keccak-256)  
<br/>
* transaction  
Data committed to the Ethereum Blockchain signed by an originating account, targeting a specific address. The transaction contains metadata such as the gas limit for that transaction.  
<br/>

* zero address  
A special Ethereum address, composed entirely of zeros, that is specified as the destination address of a contract creation transaction.
<br/>

*  DeFi  
Short for "decentralized finance," a broad category of dapps aiming to provide financial services backed by the blockchain, without any intermediaries, so anyone with an internet connection can participate.
<br/>

* digital signature  
A short string of data a user produces for a document using a private key such that anyone with the corresponding public key, the signature, and the document can verify that (1) the document was "signed" by the owner of that particular private key, and (2) the document was not changed after it was signed.
<br/>

* public key  
A number, derived via a one-way function from a private key, which can be shared publicly and used by anyone to verify a digital signature made with the corresponding private key.  
<br/>

* private key (secret key)
A secret number that allows Ethereum users to prove ownership of an account or contracts, by producing a digital signature (see public key, address, ECDSA).
<br/>




---
{: data-content="footnotes"}

[^1]: [glossary](https://ethereum.org/zh/glossary/).