---
layout: post
title: 初步了解 non-cryptographic hash
author: beautifularea
date: 2021-03-28
category: crypto
---

### hash 方法的定义 [^1]

*** 

### 分类
0) cryptographic hash
1) non-cryptographic hash

*** 

### 好的标准是什么
A good hash function satisfies two basic properties:   
1) it should be very fast to compute;   
2) it should minimize duplication of output values (collisions). 

***

### 常用算法
1) hashing by division  
```rust
h(key) = key mod table_size 
```
* Since it requires only a single division operation, hashing by division is quite fast.
* When using the division method, we usually avoid certain values of table_size like table_size should not be a power of a number suppose r, since if table_size = r^p, then h(key) is just the p lowest-order bits of key.
* A prime not too close to an exact power of 2 is often good choice for table_size.

2) hashing by multiplication  
```rust
h(k) = floor (m * frac (k * c))
```
* floor(x), yields the integer part of the real number x, and frac(x) yields the fractional part. 
* An advantage of the multiplication method is that the value of m is not critical, we typically choose it to be a power of 2 (m = 2p for some integer p).
* the word size of the machine is w bits and that key fits into a single word.
* c to be a fraction of the form s / (2w), where s is an integer in the range 0 < s < 2w. 

*** 

### 实例 [^5]
Suppose k = 123456, p = 14,  
m = 2^14 = 16384, and w = 32.  
Adapting Knuth’s suggestion, c to be fraction of the form s / 2^32.  
Then key * s = 327706022297664 = (76300 * 2^32) + 17612864,  
The 14 most significant bits of r0 yield the value h(key) = 67.  
```rust
17612864 = 0x010CC040 =

0000 0001 0000 1100 1100 0000 0100 0000
Most significant 14 bits of that is

0000 0001 0000 11
```

***

### 测试下
设计完后， 用 `smhasher` 测试一下。  [^4]

---
{: data-content="footnotes"}

[^1]: A hash function is any function that can be used to map data of arbitrary size to fixed-size values. The values returned by a hash function are called hash values, hash codes, digests, or simply hashes. The values are usually used to index a fixed-size table called a hash table. Use of a hash function to index a hash table is called hashing or scatter storage addressing.  
[^2]: [Hash function](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hash_function).
[^3]: [Designing a good non-cryptographic hash function](http://ticki.github.io/blog/designing-a-good-non-cryptographic-hash-function/) .  
[^4]: [smhasher](https://github.com/aappleby/smhasher)  .  
[^5]: [h(key)=67](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/13188468/why-the-14-most-significant-bits-of-17612864-is-67) .  