---
layout: post
title: CRDT初步了解
date: 2021-04-04
category: ipfs
---

### 背景
在 `ipfs-cluster` 的共识部分，支持两种 `consensus` [^3]   
```go
1) A CRDT-based approach  
2) A Raft-based approach  
```
对，`raft` 协议了解一些， 对 `crdt` 相对陌生。  
这里就简单研究下 `CRDT` 协议。  

***

### Who_What_When_Where_Why [^1]  
A Conflict-free Replicated Data Type (CRDT) is a data structure that simplifies distributed data storage systems and multi-user applications.
<br/>
In many systems, copies of some data need to be stored on multiple computers (known as replicas). Examples of such systems include:
<br/>
Mobile apps that store data on the local device, and that need to sync that data to other devices belonging to the same user (such as calendars, notes, contacts, or reminders);
Distributed databases, which maintain multiple replicas of the data (in the same datacenter or in different locations) so that the system continues working correctly if some of the replicas are offline;
Collaboration software, such as Google Docs, Trello, Figma, or many others, in which several users can concurrently make changes to the same file or data;
Large-scale data storage and processing systems, which replicate data in order to achieve global scalability.
All such systems need to deal with the fact that the data may be concurrently modified on different replicas. Broadly speaking, there are two possible ways of dealing with such data modifications:
<br/>
Strongly consistent replication:
In this model, the replicas coordinate with each other to decide when and how to apply the modifications. This approach enables strong consistency models such as serializable transactions and linearizability. However, waiting for this coordination reduces the performance of these systems; moreover, the CAP theorem tells us that it is impossible to make any data changes on a replica while it is disconnected from the rest of the system (e.g. due to a network partition, or because it is a mobile device with intermittent connectivity).
Optimistic replication:
<br/>
In this model, users may modify the data on any replica independently of any other replica, even if the replica is offline or disconnected from the others. This approach enables maximum performance and availability, but it can lead to conflicts when multiple clients or users concurrently modify the same piece of data. These conflicts then need to be resolved when the replicas communicate with each other.
Conflict-free Replicated Data Types (CRDTs) are used in systems with optimistic replication, where they take care of conflict resolution. CRDTs ensure that, no matter what data modifications are made on different replicas, the data can always be merged into a consistent state. This merge is performed automatically by the CRDT, without requiring any special conflict resolution code or user intervention.

***

### Types of CRDTs [^2]
There are two approaches to CRDTs, both of which can provide strong eventual consistency: `operation-based CRDTs` and `state-based CRDTs`.
<br/>
The two alternatives are theoretically equivalent, as one can emulate the other.[1] However, there are practical differences. State-based CRDTs are often simpler to design and to implement; their only requirement from the communication substrate is some kind of gossip protocol. Their drawback is that the entire state of every CRDT must be transmitted eventually to every other replica, which may be costly. In contrast, operation-based CRDTs transmit only the update operations, which are typically small. However, operation-based CRDTs require guarantees from the communication middleware; that the operations are not dropped or duplicated when transmitted to the other replicas, and that they are delivered in causal order.[1]
<br/>
* Operation-based CRDTs  
Operation-based CRDTs are also called commutative replicated data types, or CmRDTs. CmRDT replicas propagate state by transmitting only the update operation. For example, a CmRDT of a single integer might broadcast the operations (+10) or (−20). Replicas receive the updates and apply them locally. The operations are commutative. However, they are not necessarily idempotent. The communications infrastructure must therefore ensure that all operations on a replica are delivered to the other replicas, without duplication, but in any order.
<br/>
Pure operation-based CRDTs are a variant of operation-based CRDTs that reduces the metadata size.
<br/>
* State-based CRDTs  
State-based CRDTs are called convergent replicated data types, or CvRDTs. In contrast to CmRDTs, CvRDTs send their full local state to other replicas, where the states are merged by a function which must be commutative, associative, and idempotent. The merge function provides a join for any pair of replica states, so the set of all states forms a semilattice. The update function must monotonically increase the internal state, according to the same partial order rules as the semilattice.
<br/>
Delta state CRDTs (or simply Delta CRDTs) are optimized state-based CRDTs where only recently applied changes to a state are disseminated instead of the entire state.
<br/>
* Comparison  
While CmRDTs place more requirements on the protocol for transmitting operations between replicas, they use less bandwidth than CvRDTs when the number of transactions is small in comparison to the size of internal state. However, since the CvRDT merge function is associative, merging with the state of some replica yields all previous updates to that replica. Gossip protocols work well for propagating CvRDT state to other replicas while reducing network use and handling topology changes.

---
{: data-content="footnotes"}

[^1]: [About-CRDTs](https://crdt.tech/).  
[^2]: [wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conflict-free_replicated_data_type).  
[^3]: [ipfs-cluster-consensus](https://cluster.ipfs.io/documentation/deployment/architecture/).  
